
Sample of reported job titles: Applications Analyst, Business Analyst, Business Systems Analyst, Computer Analyst, Computer Systems Analyst, Computer Systems Consultant, Information Systems Analyst (ISA), Information Technology Analyst (IT Analyst), System Analyst, Systems Analyst
Test, maintain, and monitor computer programs and systems, including coordinating the installation of computer programs and systems.See more occupations related to this task.
Troubleshoot program and system malfunctions to restore normal functioning.See more occupations related to this task.
Expand or modify system to serve new purposes or improve work flow.See more occupations related to this task.
Use the computer in the analysis and solution of business problems, such as development of integrated production and inventory control and cost analysis systems.See more occupations related to this task.
Consult with management to ensure agreement on system principles.See more occupations related to this task.
Confer with clients regarding the nature of the information processing or computation needs a computer program is to address.See more occupations related to this task.
Develop, document and revise system design procedures, test procedures, and quality standards.See more occupations related to this task.
Train staff and users to work with computer systems and programs.See more occupations related to this task.
Coordinate and link the computer systems within an organization to increase compatibility and so information can be shared.See more occupations related to this task.
Assess the usefulness of pre-developed application packages and adapt them to a user environment.See more occupations related to this task.
Define the goals of the system and devise flow charts and diagrams describing logical operational steps of programs.See more occupations related to this task.
Provide staff and users with assistance solving computer related problems, such as malfunctions and program problems.See more occupations related to this task.
Use object-oriented programming languages, as well as client and server applications development processes and multimedia and Internet technology.See more occupations related to this task.
Review and analyze computer printouts and performance indicators to locate code problems, and correct errors by correcting codes.See more occupations related to this task.
Supervise computer programmers or other systems analysts or serve as project leaders for particular systems projects.See more occupations related to this task.
Read manuals, periodicals, and technical reports to learn how to develop programs that meet staff and user requirements.See more occupations related to this task.
Determine computer software or hardware needed to set up or alter system.See more occupations related to this task.
Analyze information processing or computation needs and plan and design computer systems, using techniques such as structured analysis, data modeling and information engineering.See more occupations related to this task.
Interview or survey workers, observe job performance or perform the job to determine what information is processed and how it is processed.See more occupations related to this task.
Specify inputs accessed by the system and plan the distribution and use of the results.See more occupations related to this task.
Prepare cost-benefit and return-on-investment analyses to aid in decisions on system implementation.See more occupations related to this task.
Recommend new equipment or software packages.



Sample of reported job titles: Advanced Analytics Associate, Analytical Strategist, Business Analytics Director, Business Insight and Analytics Manager, Decision Analyst, Operations Research Analyst, Operations Research Director, Operations Research Group Manager, Operations Research Manager, Optimization Analyst
Inform investment decisions by analyzing financial information to forecast business, industry, or economic conditions.See more occupations related to this task.
Prepare plans of action for investment, using financial analyses.See more occupations related to this task.
Evaluate and compare the relative quality of various securities in a given industry.See more occupations related to this task.
Recommend investments and investment timing to companies, investment firm staff, or the public.See more occupations related to this task.
Present oral or written reports on general economic trends, individual corporations, and entire industries.See more occupations related to this task.
Monitor fundamental economic, industrial, and corporate developments by analyzing information from financial publications and services, investment banking firms, government agencies, trade publications, company sources, or personal interviews.See more occupations related to this task.
Interpret data on price, yield, stability, future investment-risk trends, economic influences, and other factors affecting investment programs.See more occupations related to this task.
Purchase investments for companies in accordance with company policy.See more occupations related to this task.
Monitor developments in the fields of industrial technology, business, finance, and economic theory.See more occupations related to this task.
Draw charts and graphs, using computer spreadsheets, to illustrate technical reports.See more occupations related to this task.
Collaborate with investment bankers to attract new corporate clients to securities firms.



Sample of reported job titles: Demographer, Mathematical Statistician, Psychometric Consultant, Quantitative Methodologist, Research Scientist, Researcher, Statistical Analyst, Statistical Consultant, Statistical Reporting Analyst, Statistician
Formulate mathematical or simulation models of problems, relating constants and variables, restrictions, alternatives, conflicting objectives, and their numerical parameters.See more occupations related to this task.
Perform validation and testing of models to ensure adequacy and reformulate models as necessary.See more occupations related to this task.
Collaborate with senior managers and decision makers to identify and solve a variety of problems and to clarify management objectives.See more occupations related to this task.
Present the results of mathematical modeling and data analysis to management or other end users.See more occupations related to this task.
Collaborate with others in the organization to ensure successful implementation of chosen problem solutions.See more occupations related to this task.
Analyze information obtained from management to conceptualize and define operational problems.See more occupations related to this task.
Study and analyze information about alternative courses of action to determine which plan will offer the best outcomes.See more occupations related to this task.
Prepare management reports defining and evaluating problems and recommending solutions.See more occupations related to this task.
Define data requirements and gather and validate information, applying judgment and statistical tests.See more occupations related to this task.
Observe the current system in operation and gather and analyze information about each of the parts of component problems, using a variety of sources.See more occupations related to this task.
Break systems into their components, assign numerical values to each component, and examine the mathematical relationships between them.See more occupations related to this task.
Design, conduct, and evaluate experimental operational models in cases where models cannot be developed from existing data.See more occupations related to this task.
Educate staff in the use of mathematical models.See more occupations related to this task.
Specify manipulative or computational methods to be applied to models.See more occupations related to this task.
Develop and apply time and cost networks to plan, control, and review large projects.

Sample of reported job titles: Administrative Analyst, Business Analyst, Employment Programs Analyst, Leadership Development Manager, Management Analyst, Management Consultant, Organizational Development Consultant, Principal Consultant, Program Management Analyst, Quality Control Analyst
Analyze and interpret statistical data to identify significant differences in relationships among sources of information.See more occupations related to this task.
Identify relationships and trends in data, as well as any factors that could affect the results of research.See more occupations related to this task.
Determine whether statistical methods are appropriate, based on user needs or research questions of interest.See more occupations related to this task.
Prepare data for processing by organizing information, checking for inaccuracies, and adjusting and weighting the raw data.See more occupations related to this task.
Present statistical and nonstatistical results, using charts, bullets, and graphs, in meetings or conferences to audiences such as clients, peers, and students.See more occupations related to this task.
Report results of statistical analyses, including information in the form of graphs, charts, and tables.See more occupations related to this task.
Design research projects that apply valid scientific techniques and use information obtained from baselines or historical data to structure uncompromised and efficient analyses.See more occupations related to this task.
Process large amounts of data for statistical modeling and graphic analysis, using computers.See more occupations related to this task.
Adapt statistical methods to solve specific problems in many fields, such as economics, biology, and engineering.See more occupations related to this task.
Evaluate the statistical methods and procedures used to obtain data to ensure validity, applicability, efficiency, and accuracy.See more occupations related to this task.
Report results of statistical analyses in peer-reviewed papers and technical manuals.See more occupations related to this task.
Evaluate sources of information to determine any limitations, in terms of reliability or usability.See more occupations related to this task.
Develop and test experimental designs, sampling techniques, and analytical methods.See more occupations related to this task.
Plan data collection methods for specific projects and determine the types and sizes of sample groups to be used.See more occupations related to this task.
Supervise and provide instructions for workers collecting and tabulating data.See more occupations related to this task.
Examine theories, such as those of probability and inference, to discover mathematical bases for new or improved methods of obtaining and evaluating numerical data.See more occupations related to this task.
Prepare and structure data warehouses for storing data.See more occupations related to this task.
Develop software applications or programming to use for statistical modeling and graphic analysis.See more occupations related to this task.
Apply sampling techniques or use complete enumeration bases to determine and define groups to be surveyed.

Sample of reported job titles: Business Development Specialist, Client Service and Consulting Manager, Communications Specialist, Demographic Analyst, Market Analyst, Market Research Analyst, Market Research Consultant, Market Research Specialist, Market Researcher, Marketing Research Coordinator
Prepare reports of findings, illustrating data graphically and translating complex findings into written text.See more occupations related to this task.
Collect and analyze data on customer demographics, preferences, needs, and buying habits to identify potential markets and factors affecting product demand.See more occupations related to this task.
Conduct research on consumer opinions and marketing strategies, collaborating with marketing professionals, statisticians, pollsters, and other professionals.See more occupations related to this task.
Measure and assess customer and employee satisfaction.See more occupations related to this task.
Devise and evaluate methods and procedures for collecting data, such as surveys, opinion polls, or questionnaires, or arrange to obtain existing data.See more occupations related to this task.
Measure the effectiveness of marketing, advertising, and communications programs and strategies.See more occupations related to this task.
Seek and provide information to help companies determine their position in the marketplace.See more occupations related to this task.
Forecast and track marketing and sales trends, analyzing collected data.See more occupations related to this task.
Gather data on competitors and analyze their prices, sales, and method of marketing and distribution.See more occupations related to this task.
Monitor industry statistics and follow trends in trade literature.See more occupations related to this task.
Attend staff conferences to provide management with information and proposals concerning the promotion, distribution, design, and pricing of company products or services.See more occupations related to this task.
Direct trained survey interviewers.See more occupations related to this task.
Develop and implement procedures for identifying advertising needs.


Sample of reported job titles: Business Intelligence Analyst; Business Intelligence Manager; Commercial Intelligence Manager; Competitive Intelligence Analyst; Consultant, Strategic Business and Technology Intelligence; Director of Enterprise Strategy; Director of Market Intelligence; Director, Global Intelligence; Intelligence Analyst; Manager, Market Intelligence
Analyze competitive market strategies through analysis of related product, market, or share trends.See more occupations related to this task.
Synthesize current business intelligence or trend data to support recommendations for action.See more occupations related to this task.
Communicate with customers, competitors, suppliers, professional organizations, or others to stay abreast of industry or business trends.See more occupations related to this task.
Manage timely flow of business intelligence information to users.See more occupations related to this task.
Collect business intelligence data from available industry reports, public information, field reports, or purchased sources.See more occupations related to this task.
Identify and analyze industry or geographic trends with business strategy implications.See more occupations related to this task.
Analyze technology trends to identify markets for future product development or to improve sales of existing products.See more occupations related to this task.
Generate standard or custom reports summarizing business, financial, or economic data for review by executives, managers, clients, and other stakeholders.See more occupations related to this task.
Identify or monitor current and potential customers, using business intelligence tools.See more occupations related to this task.
Maintain or update business intelligence tools, databases, dashboards, systems, or methods.See more occupations related to this task.
Maintain library of model documents, templates, or other reusable knowledge assets.See more occupations related to this task.
Create business intelligence tools or systems, including design of related databases, spreadsheets, or outputs.See more occupations related to this task.
Conduct or coordinate tests to ensure that intelligence is consistent with defined needs.See more occupations related to this task.
Disseminate information regarding tools, reports, or metadata enhancements.


Sample of reported job titles: Account Supervisor, Brand Manager, Business Development Director, Business Development Manager, Commercial Lines Manager, Market Development Executive, Marketing Coordinator, Marketing Director, Marketing Manager, Product Manager
Identify, develop, or evaluate marketing strategy, based on knowledge of establishment objectives, market characteristics, and cost and markup factors.See more occupations related to this task.
Formulate, direct, or coordinate marketing activities or policies to promote products or services, working with advertising or promotion managers.See more occupations related to this task.
Evaluate the financial aspects of product development, such as budgets, expenditures, research and development appropriations, or return-on-investment and profit-loss projections.See more occupations related to this task.
Develop pricing strategies, balancing firm objectives and customer satisfaction.See more occupations related to this task.
Compile lists describing product or service offerings.See more occupations related to this task.
Direct the hiring, training, or performance evaluations of marketing or sales staff and oversee their daily activities.See more occupations related to this task.
Consult with product development personnel on product specifications such as design, color, or packaging.See more occupations related to this task.
Use sales forecasting or strategic planning to ensure the sale and profitability of products, lines, or services, analyzing business developments and monitoring market trends.See more occupations related to this task.
Negotiate contracts with vendors or distributors to manage product distribution, establishing distribution networks or developing distribution strategies.See more occupations related to this task.
Coordinate or participate in promotional activities or trade shows, working with developers, advertisers, or production managers, to market products or services.See more occupations related to this task.
Initiate market research studies or analyze their findings.See more occupations related to this task.
Confer with legal staff to resolve problems, such as copyright infringement or royalty sharing with outside producers or distributors.See more occupations related to this task.
Consult with buying personnel to gain advice regarding the types of products or services expected to be in demand.See more occupations related to this task.
Consult with buying personnel to gain advice regarding environmentally sound or sustainable products. Green Task StatementSee more occupations related to this task.
Conduct economic or commercial surveys to identify potential markets for products or services.See more occupations related to this task.
Recommend modifications to products, packaging, production processes, or other characteristics to improve the environmental soundness or sustainability of products. Green Task StatementSee more occupations related to this task.
Advise business or other groups on local, national, or international factors affecting the buying or selling of products or services.

Sample of reported job titles: Computer Scientist, Computer Specialist, Control System Computer Scientist, HPC Applications Manager (High Performance Computing Applications Manager), Research Scientist, Scientific Programmer Analyst
Analyze problems to develop solutions involving computer hardware and software.See more occupations related to this task.
Apply theoretical expertise and innovation to create or apply new technology, such as adapting principles for applying computers to new uses.See more occupations related to this task.
Assign or schedule tasks to meet work priorities and goals.See more occupations related to this task.
Meet with managers, vendors, and others to solicit cooperation and resolve problems.See more occupations related to this task.
Design computers and the software that runs them.See more occupations related to this task.
Conduct logical analyses of business, scientific, engineering, and other technical problems, formulating mathematical models of problems for solution by computers.See more occupations related to this task.
Evaluate project plans and proposals to assess feasibility issues.See more occupations related to this task.
Participate in multidisciplinary projects in areas such as virtual reality, human-computer interaction, or robotics.See more occupations related to this task.
Consult with users, management, vendors, and technicians to determine computing needs and system requirements.See more occupations related to this task.
Develop and interpret organizational goals, policies, and procedures.See more occupations related to this task.
Develop performance standards, and evaluate work in light of established standards.See more occupations related to this task.
Maintain network hardware and software, direct network security measures, and monitor networks to ensure availability to system users.See more occupations related to this task.
Direct daily operations of departments, coordinating project activities with other departments.

